# tzgeolookup

This package can be used to find the timezone name for a location based on
latitude/longitude GPS coordinates.  The package works entirely off-line, that
is, it does not query any web service for this information.  Usage:

```racket
> (require tzgeolookup)
> (lookup-timezone 40.7092 -74.0151)
"America/New_York"
```

This package can be used in conjunction with the [tzinfo][tzinfo] package to
determine the time zone offset and daylight saving information for a given
location:

```racket
> (require tzinfo tzgeolookup)
> (utc-seconds->tzoffset (lookup-timezone 40.7092 -74.0151) (current-seconds))
(tzoffset -14400 #t "EDT")
```

You can install the package using a "raco pkg" command:

```racket
raco pkg install tzgeolookup
```

## Overview

This package provides a single function `lookup-timezone` which takes a
latitude and longitude coordinate and returns a string, representing the IANA
time zone name for that location.

### Previous implementation

The previous implementation was described in [this][bp1] and [this][bp2] blog
post.  In addition to what is described there, this implementation uses a
custom serialization format, which saves another 10Mb over the compressed FASL
files described in the blog posts.  That implementation is available at commit
93abcae2b9ab1b77004cf65fbdc0a291680bc734.

## Updating

The package contains the timezone boundary information inside, which means it
has no external dependencies.  This data rarely changes, but when it does, the
data set can be regenerated by following instructions from the
[readme.md](./tools/readme.md) file in the tools directory.

[bp1]: https://alex-hhh.github.io/2019/08/timezone-lookup.html
[bp2]: https://alex-hhh.github.io/2019/08/timezone-lookup-2.html
[tzinfo]: https://pkgs.racket-lang.org/package/tzinfo
